>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, well, that's
a whole slew of different programming
principles.
And it might have just
flown right over your head,
but that's okay cuz we're gonna
take some time to practice it.
In this exercise,
you're gonna get a chance to practice
each of these different things.
The values, the types, the loops,
conditionals, the variables,
all of those things.
We're gonna put it all together
in one working piece of code.
It's really important that you
check out this README file and
read through these
instructions very carefully.
I've tried to lay out exactly which steps
you need to take to work through it,
but I want to orient you to this
exercise file so you understand.
We have a variable here
holding an empty array,
favoriteBooks is holding an empty array.
And what you're gonna be doing,
is you're gonna be finding first
an addFavoriteBook function.
You notice I'm already calling it here,
and
I've got listed several books
that are gonna be passed in.
You're gonna be defining that function
such that each time it's called,
it's gonna add what you've
passed in into this array.
However, there's a little twist, which is
that it's only gonna add it into the array
if the book title that's passed in
doesn't have the word great in it.
And you'll notice,
there are two of these book titles
that have the word great in them.
So those won't end up getting added, but
the others will, the other three will.
That's what addFavoriteBook is gonna do.
And then,
printFavoriteBooks is gonna do a loop.
Remember we talked about loops.
You're gonna do a loop.
And you're gonna print out all of
the books that are in this array.
You're gonna loop over all the values
in this array and print those out.
And you're also gonna print out a message
that says how many books are in there,
which as we just said is
going to be three, okay?
So just make sure you follow along
in these instructions, go in order,
and make sure you check out the hints
that I've labeled in each one of these
items because they will give you
critical information that you need.
Refer back to the slides, all that
information should be either in here or
in those slides.
And if you do get stuck, it's entirely
okay, cuz I know for some of you,
this may be some very early
experience with programming.
If you do get stuck, and you need to kind
of orient yourself a little bit, I have
provided a solution file that you can take
a look at and try to get back on track.
So we'll take plenty of time on this.
Take as much time as you need.
Work through these types of things,
and try to run the code.
And by the way, use an environment that
allows you to run code like, for example,
the developer tools
console in your browser.
One tool that I really like to
run my code is called RunJS, and
this is what it looks like.
It allows you to type in some
code like var x equals 42,
and then console dot log x.
And then,
it allows you to click the Run button, and
then you see the output right there.
So I really like this tool for running
code, and that might be useful to you.
But definitely,
do run the code as you're writing it so
that you really get that hands-on
experience with your code.
Before you jump into this exercise and
try to work on the code,
I just wanna make sure I re-emphasize
that there really is no substitute for
actually running your code and
seeing the results.
So as you're typing these things out,
it's really important that you are also
running them to try to see what results
you're getting, what errors you might
be getting to kind of correct things.
That's how all JavaScript
developers do it.
So I wanna show you real quickly a couple
of different ways that you might do that.
You could take some code and
put it into the developer console of, say,
the Chrome browser.
So if you don't already have the Chrome
browser downloaded, you can get that.
If you got something like Firefox,
it's gonna work very similar.
I'm gonna go up here, and open up
the developer tools for my Chrome browser.
And I've got it on the console tag.
If it's on the elements tag,
just click over to console.
But this is an environment now
that you can actually write code.
So I can say teacherName equals Kyle.
And I can see the results
of what I'm typing.
And then, I could say,
console dot log teacher name.
And I can actually run that code and
see the results of what I'm typing.
So try your code in
an environment like that.
And if you don't wanna use Chrome console,
or it's not working for you in developer
tools, there's another tool that I really
like to use and it's called RunJS.
And it looks like this.
It's an environment where you can type in,
and
then there's a button where
you can click to run.
So again, I could type in var
teacher name equals Kyle.
And then, if I don't make typos, and
then, say console dot log teacher name.
And then, when I click the Run button,
we see the results right there.
So either one of those two environments,
or if you have a different one,
maybe you like to run your
NodeJS on a command line.
But make sure you're running this
code as you're trying the exercise.
It's not good enough to
just talk about code, or
write some code in theory in your head.
What you really wanna do is make sure
that you're running that code and
checking yourself, and
then correcting, and moving forward.
So try that on this exercise.
We'll be back in a little bit to
talk you through, line by line,
through the solution.
And remember, if you get stuck and
you need a little bit of help,
you can always take a look,
take a peek at the solution file.